title: Mad men notes - about marrige
date: 2013-05-09 03:16:51
tags: 
    - notes
    - TV
    - Mad men
categories: 随感随记
---

`Mad men`

Don: Why aren't you married?

Are you asking what's wrong with me?

Don: It's just that you're a beautiful, educated woman. Don't you think that getting married and having a family would make you happier than all the headaches that go along with.. fighting people like me?

...

So that's it, you won't get married because you find business to be a throw.

That, and...I've never been in love.

Don: She won't get married because she's never been in love. I think I wrote that once to sell nylons.

For a lot of people, love isn't just a slogan.

Don: Oh you mean love. You mean the big lightening bolt to the heart where you can't eat and you can't work and you just run off and get married and make babies. The reason you haven't felt it is because it doesn't exist. What you call love was invented by guys like me to sell nylons.

Is that right?

Don: I'm pretty sure about it. You're born alone and you die alone. And this world just drops a bunch of rules on top of you to make you forget those facts. But I never forget. I'm living like there's no tomorrow...Because there isn't one.

I don't think I realize it until this moment, but it must be hard being a man, too.

Don: Excuse me?

Mr. Draper.

Don: Don.

Mr. Draper. I don't know what it is you really believe in, but I do know what it feels like to be out of place, to be disconnected, to see the whole world laid out in front of you the way other people live it. There is something about you that tells me you know it, too.

Don: I don't know if that's true. You want another drink?

No. But you can tell your boss that you charmed me.
 
`Eventually you come up here, or you die wondering`.

PS: 最近的饮食显示我好像已经放弃了。

