title: On my way to Oslo
date: 2015-01-15 05:22:43
tags:
    - Oslo
    - work
    - random
    - travel
    - life
categories: 行记
---

Another 3 months in a totally strange place, far less prepared than the last time. But the weird thing is, I am not at all nervous. -- Tons of meetings had already been scheduled starting 9am tomorrow morning with me on a plane right now and at least 16 hours on the travel. Ah, and with the luggage situation this morning at the airport... -- Not at all nervous right now.

2014 had been 'some' year. Wanted to put in as a 'good' year, but you know, it's complicated.

Lufthansa (LH) airline this time, far better than SAS I would say. Premium economy, almost as comfy as business in SAS. Meals are great, snacks and drinks all the time. They even offered me Bailey after lunch, that was nice. Tomato juice is better with salt and pepper, one thing learned on this flight. Cup noodles or cakes are offered between meals, that's thoughtful, although I'm not hungry yet. It takes 10 hours and 20 minutes to get from Beijing to Frankfurt. The movie selections are also huge. Watching 'Juno' right now. Young lady with a mature sense towards relationships and stuff. Making me think. Relationships are never easy for me. Maybe it's me, or maybe it's fate.

I tend to think it's the fate when I'm not unhappy. Fate has been doing weird things for me. I have been receiving lots of comments like 'you are lucky' throughout my growth. Even myself thinks like that from time to time. -- Of course, only when it's regarding study or work. For my love life, fate seems to have been doing me the opposite. Anyway, cannot think about the future, only hope for the best, and that the fate would do me some good, I think I deserve one good relationship by now, don't I?

Tried to read something for my meetings tomorrow, cannot be fully concentrated. Will try harder later when I finish this thing. Although, dinner is coming... 4 hours left to get to Frankfurt. 

Oslo, 3 months with SIP. Will I survive? Or more importantly, will I get a new opportunity? -- It's time, according to my '3 years a surprise' routine. Anyway, this is another thing to cross fingers for.

I am about to turn 30 in the year 2015, mature(old) in my dictionary. Hoping for the best for myself!

Now I should focus on not to fall asleep before landing, wouldn't want to be too jet lagged these first few days.
