title: The Moon and Sixpence
date: 2016-01-24 11:49:57
tags: 
    - book
    - notes
categories: 随感随记
---

##The Moon and Sixpence (William Somerset Maugham, 1919)

1. Civilised man practises a strange ingenuity in wasting on tedious exercises the brief span of his wife. It was the kind of party which makes you wonder why the hostess has troubled to bid her guests, and why the guests have troubled to come. There were ten people. `They met with indifference, and would part with relief.` It was, of course, a purely social function.

2.  "Why do nice women marry dull men?" 
    "Because intelligent men won't marry nice women." 
    I could not think of any retort to this, so I asked if Mrs. Strickland had children.

3.  "You certainly have less vanity than any man I've ever known."
    "I love her so much better than myself. It seems to me that `when vanity comes into love it can only be because really you love yourself best`. After all, it constantly happens that a man when he's married falls in love with somebody else; when he gets over it he returns to his whif, and she takes him back, and everyone thinks it very natual. Why should it be different with women?" 
    "I dare say that's logical, but most men are made differently, and they can't."

4. I was not so much puzzled by Blanche Stroeve's action, for I saw in that merely the result of a physical appeal. I do not suppose she had ever really care for her husband, and what I had taken for love was no more than the feminine response to caresses and comform which in the minds of most women passes for it. `It is a passive feeling capable of being roused for any object, as the vine can grow on any trees; and the wisdom of the world recognises it's strength when it urges a girl to marry the man who wants her with the assurance that love will follow.` It is an emotion made up of the satisfaction in security, pride of prperty, the pleasure of being desired, the gratification of a household, and it is only by an amiable vanity that women ascribe to it spiritual value. It is an emotion which is defenceless against passion.

5. I could not believe that Strickland had fallen in love with Blanche Stroeve. I did not believe him capable of love. That is an emotion in which tenderness is an essential part, but Strickland had no tenderness either for himself or for others; there is in love a sense of weakness, a desire to protect, an eagerness to do good and to give pleasure -- if not unselfishness, at all events a selfishness which marvellously conceals itself; it has in it a certain diffidence. These were not traits which I could imagine in Strickland. Love is absorbing; it takes the lover out of himself; the most clear-sighted, though he may know, cannot realise that his love will cease; it gives body to what he knows is illusion, and, knowing it is nothing else, he loves it better than reality. `It makes a man a little more than himself, and at the same time a little less. He ceases to be himself. He is no longer an individual, but a thing, an instrument to some purpose foreign to his ego.` Love is never quite devoid of sentimentallity, and Strickland was the least inclined to that infirmity of any man I have known. I could not believe that he would ever suffer that possession of himself which love is; he could never endure a foreign yoke. I believe him capable of uprooting from his heart, though it might be with agony, so that he was left battered and ensanguined, anything that came between himself and that uncomprehended craving that urged him constantly to he knew not what. If I have succeeded at all in giving the complicated impression that Strickland made on me, it will not seen outrageous to say that I felt he was at once too great and too small for love.

    But I suppose that everyone's conception of the passion is formed on his own idiosyncrasies, and it is different with every different person. A man like Strickland would love in a manner peculiar to himself. It was vain to seek the analysis of his emotion.

6. `There is no cruelty greater than a woman's to a man who loves her and whom she does not love; she has no kindness then, no tolerance even, she has only an insane irritation.` Blanche Stroeve stopped suddenly, and as hard as she could slapped her husband's face. She took advantage of his confusion to escape, and ran up the stairs to the studio. No word had passed her lips.

7. We took a fancy to one another. I was very young, and perhaps she liked the idea of guiding my virgin steps on the hard road of letters; while for me it was pleasent to have someone I could go to with my small troubles, certain of an attentive ear and reasonable counsel. Mrs. Stickland had the gift of sympathy. `It is a charming faculty, but one often abused by those who are conscious of its possession: for there is something ghoulish in the avidity with which they will pounce upon the misfortune of their friends so that they may exercise their dexterity.` It gushes forth like an oil-well, and the sympathetic pour out their sympathy with an abandon that is sometimes embarrassing to their victims. There are bosoms on which so many tears have been shed that I cannot bedew the with mine. Mrs. Strickland used her advantage with tact. You felt that you obliged her by accepting her sympathy. When, in the enthusiasm of my youth, I remarked on this to Rose Waterford, she said: "Milk is very nice, especially with a drop of brandy in it, but the domestic cow is only too glad to be rid of it. A swollen udder is very uncomfortable." Rose Waterford had a blistering tougue. No one could say such bitter things; on the other hand, no one could do more charming ones.

8. Mrs. MacAndrew shared the common opinion of her sex that a man is always a brute to leave a woman who is attached to him, but that a woman is much to blame if he does. Le coeur a ses raisons que la rason ne connait pas.

9. It is not true that suffering ennobles the character; happiness does that sometimes, but suffering, for the most part, makes men petty and vindictive.

10. The writer is more concerned to know than to judge.

11. When a woman loves you she's not satisfied until she possesses your soul.

12. Here lies the unreality of fiction. For in men, as a rule, love is but an episode which takes its place among the other affairs of the day, and the emphasis laid on it in novels gives it an importance which is untrue to life. There are few men to whom it is the most important thing in the world, and they are not very interesting ones; even women, with whom the subject is of the paramount interest, have a contempt for them. They are flattered and excited by them, but have an uneasy feeling that they are poor creatures. But even during the brief intervals in which they are in love, men do other things which distract their mind; they trades by which they earn their living engages their attention; they are absorbed in sport; they can interest themselves in art. For the most part, they keep their various activities in various compartments, and they can pursue one to the temporary exclusion of the other. They have a faculty of concentration on that which occupies them at the moment, and it irks them if one encroaches on the other. `As lovers, the difference between men and women is that women can love all day long, but men only at times.`
